README.md, before:

# Dropwizard Smart Logging Bundle

## Why

APIs are great. Microservices are great. But how do we keep track of a user who uses multiple APIs throughout a session? 
One approach is to add an additional value to each request i.e. user_id or session_id. This forces every API call to have 
an additional id attached to it (if available) and somewhere in the code we need to assign this to a log message.

Wouldn't it be easier to let an API client send identifiable information to the host via a header?

It would also be nice to be able to configure some extra fields to appear in every log message.

## How

Add the corresponding configuration to your config file (MyServiceConfiguration in this example) and implement interface

```java

    public class MyServiceConfiguration extends Configuration implements PrependLogConfiguration
    
    @JsonProperty
    private SmartLogging smartLogging;
```

Specifiy what header and any extra fields you want to log in your requests by adding this to your configuration:

```YAML
smartLogging:
  useHeader: X_UNIQUE_ID
  extraFields: {
    "environment": "TEST",
    "host": "localhost",
    "applicationName" : "my-cool-service"
  }
```
Add your new log format to your chosen appender

```YAML
    logFormat: "%-6level [%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS}] [%t] %logger{5} - %X{environment} %X{host} %X{applicationName} %X{X_UNIQUE_ID} %msg %n"
```

This bundle can be added to a dropwizard app using:

```java
    @Override
    public void initialize(Bootstrap<MyServiceConfiguration> bootstrap) {
        bootstrap.addBundle(new PrependLogBundle());
    }
```

## Json logging
This bundle now includes (as of version 0.4.2) a json logging encoder which produces logs formatted for logstash. To use simply define a json appender in your dropwizard config file as follows.

```
# Log info, warnings and errors to our apps' main log in json format.
# Rolled over daily and retained for 5 days.
  - type: json
    threshold: INFO
    currentLogFilename: ./logs/your-log-file-name.log
    archivedLogFilenamePattern: ./logs/your-log-file-name-%d.log.gz
    archivedFileCount: 5
```

## Security

Be careful of what you log, make sure you validate headers to ensure your logs don't become a potential attack
vector.

Commit message:

[RG] New json logging format with message_obj key [RG] Added a MDC clearing filter [RG] Added use of useHeader field [SC|RG] Exceptions as json arrays + logger context fix
[SC|RG] Readme update

README.md, after:

# Dropwizard Smart Logging Bundle

## Why

APIs are great. Microservices are great. But how do we keep track of a user who uses multiple APIs throughout a session? 
One approach is to add an additional value to each request i.e. user_id or session_id. This forces every API call to have 
an additional id attached to it (if available) and somewhere in the code we need to assign this to a log message.

Wouldn't it be easier to let an API client send identifiable information to the host via a header?

It would also be nice to be able to configure some extra fields to appear in every log message.

## How

Add the corresponding configuration to your config file (MyServiceConfiguration in this example) and implement interface

```java

    public class MyServiceConfiguration extends Configuration implements PrependLogConfiguration
    
    @JsonProperty
    private SmartLogging smartLogging;
```

Specify what header and any extra fields you want to log in your requests by adding this to your configuration:

```YAML
smartLogging:
  useHeader: X-REQ-ID
  extraFields:
    someExtraKey: someExtrValue

```

This bundle can be added to a dropwizard app using:

```Java
    @Override
    public void initialize(Bootstrap<MyServiceConfiguration> bootstrap) {
        bootstrap.addBundle(new PrependLogBundle());
    }
```

## Clearing MDC on each request

This is important to avoid MDC context leaking through request threads.

```Java
    @Override
    public void initialize(Bootstrap<MyServiceConfiguration> bootstrap) {
        bootstrap.addBundle(new MdcClearingBundle());
    }
```

## Json logging
This bundle now includes (as of version 0.4.3) a json logging encoder which produces logs formatted for logstash. To use simply define a json appender in your dropwizard config file as follows.

Add your new log format to your chosen appender

```YAML
- type: json
    apphostname: localhost
    appsecurityzone: dap
    apptype: dropwiward
    appenvironment: dev
    threshold: DEBUG
    currentLogFilename: ./logs/rest-dap-application-store.log
    archivedLogFilenamePattern: ./logs/rest-dap-application-store-%d.log.gz
    archivedFileCount: 5
    logFormat: %msg
```

## Security

Be careful of what you log, make sure you validate headers to ensure your logs don't become a potential attack
vector.
